Add stack justification to README (#221)
infinitered/ignite-bowser: readme.md

# About The Stack

## Why this stack?

If you've used Ignite Andross (the first Ignite stack), you know we formerly used Redux for state management, as does much of the community. However, we encountered some pain points with Redux so went in search of a different solution to meet our needs and landed on `mobx-state-tree`. We find that it’s a great middle ground between completely structured (like `redux`) and completely freestyle (like `mobx`). It brings more than just state-management to the table as well (such as dependency injection, serialization, and lifecycle events).

### Some Highlights of MST

MST is...

- Intuitive
  - With concepts like `props` and `actions`, it feels familiar for React developers
  - Updating your data means calling functions on objects, rather than dispatching actions.
  - Feels similar to relational databases, with concepts like `identifiers` (primary keys), `references` (foreign keys), and `views` (calculated fields)
- Streamlined
  - No more `actionTypes`, `actionCreators`, or `reducers`

>   - You don't have to declare your usage intentions with `mapStateToProps`, they are inferred

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You don't have to declare your usage intentions with `mapStateToProps`; they are inferred
```

>   - Side-effects are built in, no need for 3rd party libraries like `redux-saga`, `redux-observable`, or `redux-thunk`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Side-effects are built in; no need for 3rd party libraries like `redux-saga`, `redux-observable`, or `redux-thunk`
```

  - Immutability is built-in - no need for `immutable.js` or `seamless-immutable`
  - `types.compose` and `model.extend` allow for easy code-sharing of common patterns
- More than state management

>   - Lifecycle hooks like `afterCreate`, `preProcessSnapshot`, and `beforeDestroy` let you have control over your data at various points in it's lifecycle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Lifecycle hooks like `afterCreate`, `preProcessSnapshot`, and `beforeDestroy` let you have control over your data at various points in its lifecycle
```

  - Dependency injection with `getEnv` allows you to reference your environment (like API or other services)
- Performant
  - Round-trip store writes are much faster

>   - Computed values (views) are only calculated when needed

Reviewer: Add:

```suggestion
  - Computed values (views) are only calculated when needed
  - `mobx-react` makes React "MobX-aware" and only re-renders when absolutely necessary
```

### Downsides

We also recognize no state management solution is perfect. MST has some known downfalls:

- Integration with TypeScript is clunky at times. MST's own typing system is sometimes at odds with what TypeScript wants

> - `mobx` and `mobx-state-tree` both tend to have quite a lot of "magic" or "sorcery" that makes issues hard to debug because you don't always have a clear picture of what's happening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mobx` and `mobx-state-tree` both seem to have "magic" or "sorcery" that makes issues less straightforward to debug because you don't always have a clear picture of what's happening (but using [Reactotron](https://github.com/infinitered/reactotron), which has `mobx-state-tree` support built-in, helps a lot)
```

> - The user base is small, so finding help on GitHub or Stack overflow is difficult

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The user base is small, so finding help on GitHub or Stack overflow is less convenient (however, the [Infinite Red Slack Community](https://community.infinite.red) is very helpful)
```

- Fatal errors are sometimes too-easily triggered and error messages can be verbose and hard to grok

> - The API has a huge surface area and the docs are very technical and unfriendly

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should say "extensive to the point of being overwhelming" instead?

Reviewer: Good idea

> - The API has a huge surface area and the docs are very technical and unfriendly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The API has a large surface area and the docs tend to be technical and unfriendly
```

## Learning MobX State Tree

> MobX and MobX State Tree can be a bit confusing if you're coming from Redux, so here are a few of our favorite resources to learn the basics:

Reviewer 2: The MobX docs can also be illuminating when trying to understand the more magical things: https://mobx.js.org/

> MobX and MobX State Tree can be a bit confusing if you're coming from Redux, so here are a few of our favorite resources to learn the basics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MobX and MobX State Tree aren't intuitive if you're coming from Redux, so here are a few of our favorite resources to learn the basics:
```

Author: Considering I claim MST is "intuitive" above, there might be a better choice of word. Maybe just "...are a lot to learn if..."

Reviewer: Good idea!

- Be sure to check out the official [Getting Started](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md) guide for MobX State Tree.

- There is also a free [egghead.io course](https://egghead.io/courses/manage-application-state-with-mobx-state-tree).

- For a great explanation and walkthrough of the basics, check out [State Management with MobX State Tree](https://medium.com/react-native-training/state-management-with-mobx-state-tree-373f9f2dc68a) by React Native Training.

> - And for more in-depth reading, the [official documentation](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree/blob/master/README.md) is a great resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- And for more in-depth reading, the [official documentation](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree/blob/master/README.md) is a great resource

- To see example code bases using Bowser (and MST), check out these two:
 - https://github.com/jamonholmgren/PlayerPopularity (simple implementation)
 - https://github.com/infinitered/ChainReactApp2019 (more in-depth implementation)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: We should probably mention the spectrum channel and our own community slack as well: https://spectrum.chat/mobx-state-tree

Author: I actually didn't know about that!

## TypeScript

> In addition to `redux` --> `mobx-state-tree`, we've also transitioned to using `TypeScript` vs plain `JavaScript`. We find that TypeScript streamlines the developer experience by catching errors _before_ you hit refresh on that simulator, and prevents costly bugs by enforcing type safety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to `redux` --> `mobx-state-tree`, we've also transitioned to using `TypeScript` vs plain `JavaScript`. We find that TypeScript streamlines the developer experience by catching errors _before_ you hit refresh on that simulator, and prevents costly bugs by enforcing type safety.

In Bowser, TypeScript is fully set up, so if you know TS, all you need to do is start coding!
```
